docs: SDK design document (#32)
mrs-electronics-inc/mrs-sdk-qt: docs/src/content/docs/reference/requirements.md

Reviewer: Should we rename the file and update the front-matter? There seems to be a mismatch between the filename, front-matter description, and contents.

Author: How do you mean? I don't really see the discrepancy.

I'd be fine with renaming the file to `mvp-requirements.md` or something...is that what you're thinking?

Author: OK, I see your point. I'll do `mvp.md` and revise the frontmatter description too. I think the blurb at the top of the page is the most accurate.

## 2 Goals

This section defines the major goals for the SDK.

### 2.1 Supported Environments

The SDK must be compatible with a variety of products, OS architectures, and compilation toolchains.

- **MRS Products:** NeuralPlex, MConn, FUSION
- **OS Architectures:** Yocto, Buildroot
- **Qt Versions:**
  - *5.9.1:* MConn/FUSION Buildroot toolchain
  - *5.12.9:* MConn/FUSION Yocto toolchain
  - *5.15.0:* Qt5 desktop toolchain
  - *6.8.1* Neuralplex toolchain

### 2.2 Documentation

The SDK will need to be documented at an in-depth level to enable its effective use by developers.

Documentation will come in 2 forms:

- Extensive comments in the header files in the code to explain what the code does on a function-by-function basis
- Detailed pages in the external documentation site for reference outside the code

If possible, the documentation in the website will contain auto-generated web versions of the comments in the code.

## 3 Features

### 3.1 Build System

The SDK must support a wide range of different [environments](#supported-environments). To accomplish this, a custom build system will be required.

> This system needs to be compatible with both qmake and CMake. However, use of CMake will be encouraged, especially for NeuralPlex projects that use Qt6.

Author: You are correct. CMake is now what Qt uses to build all the Qt libs...they migrated from qmake in Qt6.

I'll make a note of it.

> This system needs to be compatible with both qmake and CMake. However, use of CMake will be encouraged, especially for NeuralPlex projects that use Qt6.

Author: Good point. I try to avoid using "we" and "I" as much as I can, but sometimes it results in passive voice...fixed now

The build system should be easy to configure from the developer side, and provide the following:

- Macros for dynamic compilation to different environments
  - Example: an `MRS_NEURALPLEX` macro to enable NeuralPlex-specific code
- Automatic configuration of build targets
  - Example: MConn Yocto requires app executables to follow the naming format `normal.app.<short-name>` or `early.app.<short-name>`

### 3.2 Spoke.Zone Client

The SDK will include a full-featured client for the [Spoke.Zone](https://spoke.zone/) platform.

Connected devices interact with Spoke.Zone in a variety of ways. Here are a few:

- Sending live dashboard data via MQTT

> - Uploading various forms of data files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Uploading various types of data files
```

Maybe just personal preference. Data file "types" are the name we use on the Spoke.Zone side. 🤷🏽

- OTA software updates
- Triggering alerts

> The SDK's client will provide APIs for all of these features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK's client will provide a convenient interface for all of these features.
```

It seems inaccurate/possibly confusing to say "APIs".

Reviewer: But maybe not worth changing. You use API like this several times throughout the document. It's not inaccurate.

See https://docs.spoke.zone/ for more information about the platform.

#### 3.2.1 MQTT Connectivity

The SDK will implement an MQTT client using the [`mosquitto`](https://mosquitto.org/api/files/mosquitto-h.html) library.

Necessary features:

- Simple API for applications to connect, disconnect, and reconnect the client
- Simple but comprehensive configuration of the client: host, port, keepalive, username/password, etc
- Simple API for publishing MQTT messages
  - Only require QOS of `0` for now, but higher levels may be supported in the future
- Ability for apps to monitor the current status of the client
  - Apps should be able to dynamically receive status updates via Qt signal-slot connections

The MQTT implementation must support both statically and dynamically linked `mosquitto` libraries according to the environment defined in the [build system](#build-system).

#### 3.2.2 Spoke.Zone API Client

> The SDK will also provide a robust client for the Spoke.Zone devices API. This client will be accessible to applications and implemented in a way that minimizes the amount of boilerplate required by apps while still providing full functionality.

Reviewer: Hmmm, need to figure out a better term than "devices API" to describe "the part of the Spoke.Zone API that is available to devices". When you say "devices API" that is way too easy to confuse with the devices endpoints of the SZ API (`/api/v2/devices` and all related endpoints) which are for device management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK will also provide a robust client for integrating with the Spoke.Zone API. This client will be accessible to applications and implemented in a way that minimizes the amount of boilerplate required by apps while still providing full functionality.
```

One attempt 🤷🏽 

Matches the "device integration" wording used in the SZ docs 🤷🏽

Author: Makes sense :+1:

##### 3.2.2.1 Data File Uploads

Devices can upload data files of various types to Spoke.Zone using the process documented [here](https://docs.spoke.zone/developers/device-integration/data-file-uploads/).

> This process is somewhat complicated, simply because of the asynchronous back-and-forth that goes on between the device and Spoke.Zone. Because of this, the SDK's Spoke.Zone client will aim to abstract as much of the process as possible to make things simpler for applications.

Reviewer: sweet 👍🏽

The SDK will implement a proxy interface for CAN buses...

### 3.4 Digital I/O

### 3.5 CAN Module Flasher

The SDK will implement MRS's proprietary protocol for flashing connected CAN modules.

The flasher implementation will require integration with a CAN bus proxy interface via Qt signal-slot connections.

The flasher API will be simple:

- The `scan` method will scan the connected CAN bus for MRS modules
  - Results will be returned as a list of objects containing all the relevant data about the modules
- The `select` method will tell one of the selected modules to prepare for flashing
- The `flash` method will read the given S19 package file and flash it to the module
  - Download progress will be incrementally reported back to the app

The flasher will be responsible for notifying the app of the results of each operation and providing robust error handling and output for any issues that occur.

### 3.6 Utilities

Threading helpers, singletons, display brightness control, general Qt helpers...

### 3.7 Tooling

Package generation (IPK, DEB)

> CAN code generator?

Reviewer: yes we need it - #23 

should it be in the MVP or not is the question i think?

i'm not sure 🤔
